Upload to transport request scenario (#855)
SAP/jenkins-library: documentation/docs/scenarios/upload-to-transportrequest/Readme.md

# Build an SAP Fiori Application and attach it to a transport request on an ABAP system with Jenkins

Build an application based on SAPUI5 or SAP Fiori with Jenkins and attaches the build result to a transport request in an ABAP system.

There are in principle two technical ways how to attach a binary to an ABAP transport request. We support an upload via RFC and an upload via ODATA. Which way to use depends on the version of your ABAP system. For AS ABAP 7.50 SP08 or 7.51 SP07 or 7.52 SP03 or newer the ODATA based upload should be used, for older versions the RFC based upload needs to be used.

## Prerequisites

* [Docker environment](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/)

> * You have set up Project “Piper”. See [guided tour](../../../guidedtour/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have set up project “Piper”. See [guided tour](../../../guidedtour/)
```

> * A transport request

Reviewer 2: A transport request can be opened also on the fly. It is not a "hard" prerequisite. Or at least we should document the two possibilities here

Author: @IKirilova a transport request can also be created within the pipeline `transportRequestCreate`. But the scenario here describes the case without pre-existing transport request. I guess it is for the sake of didactical reduction. The question is: should we make the scenario here more complex and also explain how to act without pre-existing transport request. I added a sentence inside the pre-requisites section explaining that a transport request can also be created in the pipeline.

@SarahNoack : what do you think: is it from the didactical point of view better to omit some details (here: we can also create a transport request during the pipeline run) or should we explain more details?

> * Depending on the version of the ABAP system: Docker image for attaching binaries to transport requests via RFC available. Due to legal reasons there is no pre-build docker image. How to create the docker image is explained [here](https://github.com/SAP/devops-docker-images/tree/master/node-rfc)

Reviewer: Is this still the place to go? Is `devops-docker-images` not deprecated?

Author: To my knowledge there are still some remaining images provided from that repo. Which repo is according to your view the new one which we can refer to instead?

### Project Prerequisites

This scenario requires additional files in your project and in the execution environment on your Jenkins instance.

On the project level, provide and adjust the following template:

| File Name | Description | Position |
|-----|-----|-----|
| [`mta.yaml`](https://github.com/SAP/jenkins-library/blob/master/documentation/docs/scenarios/rfc-upload/files/mta.yaml) | This file controls the behavior of the MTA toolset. | Place the `mta.yaml` file in your application root folder and adjust the values in brackets with your data. |

Depending on the modules in your MTA, additional configuration files are required, e.g. `pom.xml`  or `package.json`.

## Context

This scenario combines various different steps to create a complete pipeline.

In this scenario, we want to show how to build an application based on SAPUI5 or SAP Fiori by using the multi-target application (MTA) concept and how to attach the build result to a transport request inside an ABAP system. This document comprises the [mtaBuild](../../../steps/mtaBuild/) and the [transportRequestUploadFile](../../../steps/transportRequestUploadFile/) steps.

> In case of an RFC basd upload the binary is not streamed to the ABAP endpoint. Instead an URL pointing to the binary needs to be provided. Hence the binary must be published first so that it can be accessed via HTTP. This can happen by uploading the binary to a blob store or by archiving the artifact on Jenkins. The corresponding URL needs to be provided when the artifact is attached to the transport request.

Reviewer 2: typo - based

> The transport request can be created on the fly (see [transportRequestCreate](../../../steps/transportRequestCreate/)) or we can use an already existing transport request. In case we use an already existing transport request Id the transport request Id needs to be provided in the git commit history (see example below) or the transport request id needs to be provided inside the job (e.g. as a job parameter).

Reviewer 2: punctuation missing, inconsistent Id or id

Author: Changed from `id` to `Id`. Typo (based) fix. I can't find a punctuation issue.

The transport request can be closed by the pipeline job (see [transportRequestRelease](../../../steps/transportRequestRelease/)))

> A git commit message containing the transportRequestId:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is an example of a Git commit message containing the transport request ID:
```

```
The headline

> The body. The blank line above is mandatory (git standard).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The body. The blank line above is mandatory (Git standard).
```

TransportRequest: <YOUR TRANSPORT REQUEST ID>
```

> By default the git commits between the merge base with base branch (default: `master`) and the current branch head are traversed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, the Git commits between the merge base with the base branch (default: `master`) and the current branch head are traversed.
```

![This pipeline in Jenkins Blue Ocean](images/pipeline.png)
###### Screenshot: Build and Deploy Process in Jenkins

## Examples

### Upload via RFC

#### Jenkinsfile

> Following the convention for pipeline definitions, use a `Jenkinsfile` which resides in the root directory of your development sources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Following the convention for pipeline definitions, use a `Jenkinsfile`, which resides in the root directory of your development sources.
```

```groovy
@Library('piper-lib-os') _

pipeline {

    agent any

    stages {
        stage("prepare") {
            steps {
                deleteDir()
                checkout scm
                setupCommonPipelineEnvironment script: this
            }
        }

        stage('build') {
            steps {

>                 // what needs to be done here depends on the project, maybe zipping the sources is sufficient

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                // It depends on your project, what needs to be done here. Maybe it's sufficient to zip the sources
```

                mtaBuild script: this
            }
        }

        stage('publish') {
            steps {

>                 // uploads the binary into a blob store so that it can be attached to a transport request later

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                // This uploads the binary into a blob store so that it can be attached to a transport request later
```

                sh "curl --upload-file <deployable> <BLOB_STORE/path/to/application>"

                // OR (in case there is no BLOB_STORE available)

>                 // this makes the artifact available on nexus. The url is:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                // This makes the artifact available on Nexus. The URL is the following:
```

                // <JENKINS_URL>/job/<JOB_NAME>/<BUILD_NUMBER>/artifact/<DEPLOYABLE>. Nota bene: this format is not an Jenkins API.

>                 // The build number can be retrieved during the build via ${currentBuild.number}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                // The build number can be retrieved during the build through ${currentBuild.number}
```

                archiveArtifacts artifacts: <deployable>
            }
        }

>         // attaches the deployable to a transport request

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        // This attaches the deployable to a transport request
```

        stage('attach') {
            steps {
                transportRequestUploadFile script: this,

>                                            transportRequestId: '<TRANSPORT_REQUEST_ID>', // can be omitted if present inside a git commit message

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                                           transportRequestId: '<TRANSPORT_REQUEST_ID>', // This can be omitted if present inside a Git commit message
```

                                           applicationUrl: '<THE_URL_TO_THE_DEPLOYABLE_ACCORDING_TO_PUBLISH_STAGE>'
            }
        }
    }
}
```

#### Configuration (`.pipeline/config.yml`)

This is a basic configuration example, which is also located in the sources of the project.

```yaml
general:
  changeManagement:
    type: 'RFC'
    endpoint: 'the RFC endpoint' # e.g. example.com'

>     credentialsId: 'RFC' # The id under which the credentials are provided on Jenkins, defaults to 'CM'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    credentialsId: 'RFC' # The ID under which the credentials are provided on Jenkins defaults to 'CM'
```

    rfc:
      developmentInstance: '01' # needs to be adjusted
      developmentClient: '001' # needs to be adjusted
      docker:

>         image: '<imageId>' # the image needs to be built on user side. The corresponding id needs to be provided here.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        image: '<imageId>' # the image needs to be built on user side. The corresponding ID needs to be provided here.
```

        options: []
        envVars: {}

>         pullImage: true|false # true in case the image is provided by a company specific docker registry

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        pullImage: true|false # true if the image is provided by a company-specific Docker registry
```

 
steps:
    transportRequestUploadFile:
        codePage: <the code page>, # e.g. 'Cp1252'
        acceptUnixStyleLineEndings: true|false
        applicationName: '/your/application/name'
        applicationDescription: 'Application description'
        abapPackage: '/abap/package'
```

### Upload via ODATA

#### Jenkinsfile

> Following the convention for pipeline definitions, use a `Jenkinsfile` which resides in the root directory of your development sources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Following the convention for pipeline definitions, use a `Jenkinsfile`, which resides in the root directory of your development sources.
```

```groovy
@Library('piper-lib-os') _

pipeline {

    agent any

    stages {
        stage("prepare") {
            steps {
                deleteDir()
                checkout scm
                setupCommonPipelineEnvironment script: this
            }
        }

        stage('build') {
            steps {

>                 // what needs to be done here depends on the project, maybe zipping the sources is sufficient

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                // It depends on your project, what needs to be done here. Maybe it's sufficient to zip the sources
```

                mtaBuild script: this
            }
        }

>         // attaches the deployable to a transport request,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        // This attaches the deployable to a transport request,
```

>         // in case we have a prior call to mtaBuild this step sets the deployable

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        // if you have a prior call to mtaBuild, this step sets the deployable
```

        stage('attach') {
            steps {
                transportRequestUploadFile script: this,

>                                            transportRequestId: '<TRANSPORT_REQUEST_ID>' // can be omitted if present inside a git commit message

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                                           transportRequestId: '<TRANSPORT_REQUEST_ID>' // This can be omitted if present inside a Git commit message
```

            }
        }
    }
}
```

#### Configuration (`.pipeline/config.yml`)

This is a basic configuration example, which is also located in the sources of the project.

```yaml
general:
  changeManagement:
    type: 'CTS'
    endpoint: 'the ODATA endpoint' # e.g. 'http://example.org/sap/opu/odata/SAP/SCTS_CLOUD_API_ODATA_SRV/'

>     credentialsId: 'CTS' # The id under which the credentials are provided on Jenkins, defaults to 'CM'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    credentialsId: 'CTS' # The ID under which the credentials are provided on Jenkins defaults to 'CM'
```
